Description:

Given a string containing just the characters '(' and ')', find the length of the longest valid (well-formed) parentheses substring.
For "(()", the longest valid parentheses substring is "()", which has length = 2.
Another example is ")()())", where the longest valid parentheses substring is "()()", which has length = 4.

Solution:

参照LeetCode官方给出的解题报告：

# 1. Brute Force

In this approach, we consider every possible non-empty even length substring from the given string and check whether it's a valid string of parentheses or not. In order to check the validity, we use the Stack's Method.

Every time we encounter a '(', we push it onto the stack. For every ')' encountered, we pop a '(' from the stack. If '(' isn't available on the stack for popping at anytime or if stack contains some elements after processing complete substring, the substring of parentheses is invalid. In this way, we repeat the process for every possible substring and we keep on storing the length of the longest valid string found so far.

每次检查偶数个字符，遍历完所有的偶数对，对每个偶数对进行判断是否合法
但会导致 Time Limit Exceeded

```java
class Solution {
    public int longestValidParentheses(String s) {
        int max = 0;

        for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) {
            for (int j = i + 2; j <= s.length(); j += 2) {
                if (helper(s.substring(i, j))) {
                    max = Math.max(max, j - i);;
                }
            }
        }

        return max;
    }

    public Boolean helper(String s) {
        Deque<Character> stack = new ArrayDeque<>();

        for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) {
            if (s.charAt(i) == '(') {
                stack.push(s.charAt(i));
            } else if (!stack.isEmpty() && stack.peek() == '(') {
                stack.pop();
            } else {
                return false;
            }
        }

        return stack.isEmpty();
    }
}
```

# 2. Using Dyanmic Programming
This problem can be solved by using Dynamic Programming. We make use of a dp array where ith element of dp represents the length of the longest valid substring ending at ith index. We initialize the complete dp array with 0's. Now, it's obvious that the valid substrings must end with ')'. This further leads to the conclusion that the substrings ending with '(' will always contain '0' at their corresponding dp indices. Thus, we update the dp array only when ')' is encountered.
To fill dp array we will check every two consecutive characters of the string and if
1. s[i]=')' and s[i - 1]= '(', i.e. string looks like ".......()" ⇒ dp[i]=dp[i-2]+2
We do so because the ending "()" portion is a valid substring anyhow and leads to an increment of 2 in the length of the just previous valid substring's length.
2.s[i]=')' and s[i−1]=')', i.e. string looks like ".......))" ⇒ if s[i-dp[i-1]-1]=')' then dp[i]=dp[i-1]+dp[i-dp[i-1]-2]+2
The reason behind this is that if the 2nd last ')' was a part of a valid substring (say sub_s), for the last ')' to be a part of a larger substring, there must be a corresponding starting '(' which lies before the valid substring of which the 2nd last ')' is a part (i.e. before sub_s). Thus, if the character before sub_s happens to be '(', we update thedp[i] as an addition of 2 in the length of sub_s which is dp[i−1]. To this, we also add the length of the valid substring just before the term "(,sub_s,)" , i.e. \dp[i-dp[i-1]-2].
如果当前字符是'('则忽略
如果当前字符是')'
1.前一字符是'(', 那么长度是前两字符的最长合法长度+2
2.前一字符是')', 那么获得前一字符的最长合法长度max
   如果前 max+1 项是'(', 那么便是合法的，取值为max+1+1的长度, 再加上匹配位置之前的最长长度
   如果前 max+1 项是')', 配对失败，忽略                                                                                                              

```java
public class Solution {
    public int longestValidParentheses(String s) {
        int max = 0;
        int dp[] = new int[s.length()];
        for (int i = 1; i < s.length(); i++) {
            if (s.charAt(i) == ')') {
                if (s.charAt(i - 1) == '(') {
                    dp[i] = i - 2 > 0 ? dp[i - 2] + 2 : 2;
                } else if (i - dp[i - 1] - 1 >= 0 && s.charAt(i - dp[i - 1] - 1) == '(') {
                    dp[i] = dp[i - 1] + 2;
                    dp[i] += i - dp[i - 1] - 2 >= 0 ? dp[i - dp[i - 1] - 2] : 0;
                }
            }
            max = Math.max(max, dp[i]);
        }
        return max;
    }
}
```


# 3. Using Stack
Instead of finding every possible string and checking its validity, we can make use of stack while scanning the given string to check if the string scanned so far is valid, and also the length of the longest valid string. In order to do so, we start by pushing -1 onto the stack.

For every '(' encountered, we push its index onto the stack.

For every ')' encountered, we pop the topmost element and subtract the current element's index from the top element of the stack, which gives the length of the currently encountered valid string of parentheses. If while popping the element, the stack becomes empty, we push the current element's index onto 
the stack. In this way, we keep on calculating the lengths of the valid substrings, and return the length of the longest valid string at the end.

stack存储'('的位置，而不是存储它本身

```java
class Solution {
    public int longestValidParentheses(String s) {
        int max = 0;
        Deque<Integer> stack = new ArrayDeque<>();
        stack.push(-1);

        for (int i = 0; i < s.length(); i++) {
            if (s.charAt(i) == '(') {
                stack.push(i);
            } else {
                stack.pop();
                if (stack.isEmpty()) {
                    stack.push(i);
                } else {
                    max = Math.max(max, i - stack.peek());
                }
            }
        }

        return max;
    }
}
```